Hello! Welcome to the section 10 challenge.
In this challenge, what I'm
asking you to do is to create
a substitution cipher program.
This is really straightforward,
but it'll give you some experience
using the c++ string class.
Now there's an easy way to do this
and a not so easy way to do this.
I'm not going to tell you what
the easy way to do this is
because I want you to learn and
try to figure it out on your own.
Let me talk about the challenge.
A simple very old method of sending
messages is the substitution cipher.
I remember using this as a
kid with some of my friends.
We used to have something
called a secret decoder ring.
And the idea is you have a message
and then you look at every character
in that message and you replace
it with the character on the ring.
So for example, every time you
see a lowercase a it gets replaced
with a capital x or every time you
see a lowercase b it gets replaced
with a capital z and so forth.
So it's called the
substitution cipher.
It's really a straightforward cipher.
It's not a very secure cipher at
all, but it's a fun cipher to do.
So here's the idea.
I want you to write a program that
asks the user to enter a secret
message, that'll be a string.
And then I want you to encrypt that
message using the substitution cipher
and display the encrypted message.
Then take that encrypted
message and decrypt it back
to the original message,
okay? You can use two strings
for your substitution.
You can have one string
for the alphabet.
And let me write this here
for you that way you maybe
understand a little bit better.
So let's say you have one
string which is the alphabet.
And this string contains
all the characters that
you want to substitute.
So for example, let's say
we've got a b c and so forth.
And capital a capital b capital c.
Okay, then I've got another
string called the key.
And you can name these
anything you like.
And the idea here is that for every
character up in the alphabet string,
you're going to have a character in
the key string that'll substitute it.
So if i want to substitute that
lowercase a for an x, it'll be here.
And let's say that the b gets a z
and the c gets a q and then this
uppercase a gets a lowercase,
let's say, z, a lowercase q and
a lowercase d, it doesn't really
matter what you replace them with.
So now the idea is
really straightforward.
Whenever you see the secret message,
let's say, the secret message is
a b c, you look in the alphabet.
You look for that
little a, you find it.
You find it in position 0.
Then you go to the key,
look in position 0, whatever
is there you replace it.
You do the same thing
with lowercase b.
It's going to be replaced with the z.
And you do the same thing
with the lowercase c, it'll
replace it with a q.
Okay, obviously you just keep going
down the string, whatever you find,
you replace, so that would be my
original message, this is now my
encrypted message. How would i
decrypt the message? Do the same
thing just the other way around.
You look in the key for an x.
I find it at position 0.
So I go to position zero in my
alphabet, and I grab the little a.
Again, I look for the z.
It's in position one.
There's my b in position one.
And then my q is going
to be in position three or sorry, position two.
And it gives me my c.
So there you go.
Really, really straightforward to do.
Make the cipher stronger if you wish.
This is a really weak cipher.
Right now it's only
substituting the letters.
And let me scroll down here just
a little bit to show you what
I'm giving you to start with.
You can see what I'm
giving you to start with.
I'm giving you an alphabet,
which is a string of all the
lowercase and uppercase letters.
I kept these in order just
to make it easier to debug.
And then you've got the key.
Those are the substitutions.
So for every one of these letters,
there is an equivalent letter here
that we're going to substitute.
So for example whenever we
see a lowercase a in our
message, we're going to
substitute it with a capital x.
Whenever I see a capital z, I'm going
to substitute it with a lowercase r.
That's for encryption.
And then for decryption, you
just read the encrypted string
and you go the other way around.
So if you see a capital x in your
encrypted string, you'll replace it
with a lowercase a to decrypt it.
That's it, really straightforward.
As I said, I'm only using
letters here, I'm not dealing
with numbers or spaces.
You can be as creative
as you want with that.
There's a lot of ways to
make this a lot stronger
and just have fun doing it.
Remember, I'm writing this
right here on line 28.
Remember, the less code you write,
the less code you have to test.
You reuse existing
functionality in the libraries.
Use the code that's
in the stream class.
Don't try to create
all this on your own.
Remember, the kiss principle, keep
this as simple as you can, reuse
as much as you can and that makes
your program very likely a lot
more correct than it will be if you
try to do everything on your own.
Remember, those those library
functions and methods that we've
used, they've been tested, and they've
been debugged for years and years.
So they're pretty
solid, so reuse those.
So let me give you a sample run so
that you can see what to expect.
So I'm going to run this.
And you can see here,
enter your secret message.
And I'll say I'll meet you
at Billy's house at 10 a.m.
Okay, now press enter.
And it says encrypting message,
and here's the encrypted message.
You can see it's replacing characters.
It's pretty obvious what's
going on here, right.
You can see the capital i in isle is
being replaced with a lowercase j.
The apostrophe is not being
replaced at all because I'm
only dealing with letters.
The lowercase l is being replaced
with the capital d, you can see here.
So you can see going across that
that's your encrypted message.
Then I'm taking that encrypted message
and decrypting it just doing the
opposite I just did, and I got back
the same message I started with.
Okay, so you can see it's pretty easy.
So my secret message would
be this is my secret message.
There's the encrypted message.
Okay, you can see the third
character here is an i, which is
being replaced by a capital j.
And you can see the i again
right here in the is, and
there's the capital j again.
Okay, so have fun, like I
said and make this stronger
that's what I like to do.
You know learn and play
around with ideas that you may
have to make this stronger.
It's a lot of fun to try.
Okay, so when you're done, I'll
see you over in the solution,
and I'll show you my solution.